>> Mike North: Let's address the questions
before we go over the solution
to the variables exercise.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, I had one.
So does it matter where in your Sass
value call in the partial filename?
>> Mike North: Great question.
>> Speaker 2: Should it
be at the very top or
should it just be outside
those declarations?
>> Mike North: Great question.
So if you do it at the very top,
then all Scss you define
below that point will
behave as if all of the stuff that is
defined in that import is in scope.
You can actually do an import
from inside a declaration block
if you wanted to make certain rules
available, certain variables and
things available only within
a particular scope, right?
So there are two things
you need to consider.
One is whether you want stuff to
be available in the global scope.
And typically, that would be like imported
at the very first line of the file.
And the second is if you don't want it
to be in that scope, is there a place
you could put it where things wouldn't
collide with other important things?
It would be contained.
So if you, for example, had this variables
file and you put that import inside
container, you would only have access to
those variables within that scope there.
Similar to the local variables
example that we looked at earlier.
And this, by the way,
this is another underutilized aspect of
the import selector, where you could
define some classes in an import and
you could almost bring
them into a selector.
There are better ways to do this with
Sass, but this is one way to do it.
Where if we moved our button
primary into another file,
we could actually just bring those
rules into button with an import.
It's almost like a copy and paste.
Copy file contents, and
replace the import with that.
Were there any other questions?
>> Speaker 3: Is
the namespacing on import,
is that just the relative
path on the hard disk?
>> Mike North: Yes.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Mike North: Namespacing on import
is a relative path on the hard disk.
That is one thing that will resolve.
But also keep in mind that you
can set up the Sass compiler
to have access to other paths.
So actually, look,
you have ordering of the paths,
right, and it will go and try to resolve
the first thing that it can encounter.
So an example would be if you had
a file in your path called Bootstrap,
that would overshadow the Bootstrap
library you might have brought in.
So this is why sometimes,
it is nice to bring things in.
This is why Bootstrap doesn't have its
underscore variables file at the top level
of the of its import.
You bring that in with
bootstrap/ _variables, so
that they're trying to make it so
that you don't have any collisions there.
>> Speaker 3: So I had a question about
the bloat in your CSS where you import.
So if you were doing the local version
of that, of scoping at the import,
you get everything in that every eye,
right?
>> Mike North: So,
[LAUGH] that's a good question there.
The way I typically use imports,
I don't rely on them to do too much of the
crazy stuff that I just said was possible.
To be clear, I didn't say,
it was advisable that you do that.
My Sass, in terms of my imports,
looks as follows.
I'll have one file that is
entirely comprised of imports, and
that will usually be the only
non-partial Sass file that I have.
That'll be the only thing that
doesn't start with an underscore.
And I'll usually call that app.scss,
and that will turn into my CSS.
And we'll begin by importing the variables
and making sure that you get that right
in terms of what needs to
get defined before what.
And then I'll import other
things from other places.
Now, I told you that importing was
sort of a find and replace thing.
What this means is that because wherever
I'm consuming my other partials for
my components and things,
those will be already brought into
a scope where variables are defined.
They're already defined in my
app.scss on a higher line, right?
That means that I don't have to import
my variables into every single file.
Now, what that does mean is that
each of my individual files,
they are not freestanding.
But partials are not really
meant to be freestanding.
So this is an appropriate
way to do it in my mind.
But yes, to your point, importing is
a copy-and-paste style operation.
And importing many times will result in
many copies of that being proliferated
through your app.
So that being said, with the approach
that I just advocated for here,
typically you don't need to worry about
that, because anything you are importing
into a file that has classes,
is something that will evaluate to no CSS.
So that would be mix ins and variables and
one other thing called placeholders
that we'll talk about later today.
And everything else sort of just all being
brought together into one big piece.
And this pattern scales
up really nicely because.
Now it's, you know we're used to
boiling everything down until like
as few files as possible, I mean until
the whole world is on HTTP/2 and
like breaking things up into multiple
files comes to no cost to our users.
Like we need to move in
the direction of consolidating and
concatenating everything together and
this gives me a nice way to sort of,
Do that right from the start
with imports and not
have build tools define how things are-
>> Speaker 3: It sounds a little bit like
the structure that Max advocates.
>> Mike North: Yep, in addition to that,
it's a lot like the way Rails
would structure styles.
It is a lot like the way
Ember structures styles.
>> Speaker 2: Smex is awesome.
>> Mike North: What is Smex?
It is that CSS architecture
it is like suits and
smex those different methodologies.
>> Speaker 2: Just how to organize your
folders if you could just use bin and
then smex it would be perfect Interesting.
[CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 3: A little modular
architection, see what it says, and
Jonathon Snook-
>> Speaker 2: Snook.
You guys had Snook here.
Like a couple years ago [CROSSTALK]
>> Speaker 3: Yeah,
we actually have a smash course on with-
>> Mike North: Cool.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, he's the best.
>> Mike North: Awesome.
Sounds like there's a lot of convergence
around a similar set of patterns.
So with that, I'm going to go through
the solution to this exercise here.
If there are no other questions and
none online.
So let's look at our code here
>> Mike North: We
are currently not running and
let me go back to my slides here.
Variables is the name of the exercise.
So run I don't know if that is.
run -e variables.
And we're up and running on localhost:3000
we can get rid of our terminal here.
>> Mike North: Do a refresh.
>> Mike North: And
collapse all our folders.
All right, variables.
>> Mike North: So here's our SCSS file.
I didn't make everyone do the similar work
that would be required to get here from
excercise one.
This should like a little bit
like your excercise one solution.
So I'm gonna go ahead and right at
the I'm gonna import the variables file.
You don't need to add the extension,
you do need a semicolon at the end of
the variable statement here, right?
And then from within here, if I recall,
let me just double check
the instructions here.
So hot bush for the primary background.
A $venus border so lets do that.
Border should be $venus and
this should be $hopbush.
And for the second background $nebula
background and a $patina border.
>> Mike North: And it's that easy.
Now we could start just to give
you a preview of like the lighten,
darken the color functions here.
We could even do this like saturate
>> Mike North: By 20% and
make it a more vivid Pink there,
or darken by 20%.
And you see I've got
code completion in here
from a Visual Studio plugin that tells me,
I'm using SASS,
and this is the result of this function,
and these are the arguments it takes.
So really easy to use, really easy
to import and consume variables.